Now before leaving the section
and move into the gaining access section,
where I'm gonna teach you how to break
the different encryptions and gain access to networks.
I wanna spend one more lecture talking about
a really useful attack that still falls under
the pre-connection attacks, under the section.
The attack that I wanna talk about
is the deauthentication attack,
this attack allow us to disconnect any device
from any network before connecting
to any of these networks
and without the need to know the password for the network.
To do this,
we're going to pretend to be the client
that we want to disconnect by changing
our MAC address to the MAC address of that client
and tell the router that I want to disconnect from you.
Then we're going to pretend to be the router,
again, by changing our Mac address
to the router's Mac address,
and tell the client that you requested to be disconnected,
so I'm going to disconnect you.
This will allow us to successfully disconnect
or deauthenticate any client from any network.
Now we're actually not going to do this manually,
we're gonna use a tool called aireplay-ng, to do that.
From the previous lecture,
we know that this Mac address, right here,
belongs to an Apple computer and like I said,
this Apple computer is actually my computer, right here.
And as you can see,
this host machine is connected to this network, right here,
which is the same as the one that you see in here,
and it actually has internet access.
So, if I just look for test,
you'll see that I'm connected
and I can look for things, I can use Google.
So, I have a proper working internet connection.
Now, we're gonna come back here
and we're going to use a tool called aireplay-ng,
to launch the deauthentication attack
and disconnect this Mac computer from the internet.
So, we're gonna to type the name of the program,
which is aireplay-ng,
we're gonna tell it that I want to run
a deauthentication attack.
Then, I'm gonna give it the number
of deauthentication packets that I want to send,
so I'm gonna give it a really large number,
so that it keeps sending these packets to
both the router and the target device.
Therefore I'll disconnect my target device
for a very long period of time.
And the only way to get it back to connect
is to hit Control + C and quit aireplay-ng.
Next, I'm gonna give aireplay-ng
the MAC address of my target network.
So I'm gonna do, dash a,
and give it the MAC address,
which I'm gonna copy from here,
then I'm gonna use, dash c,
to give it the MAC address of the client
that I want to disconnect.
And the client that I want to disconnect
is this client right here, which is the Apple computer,
like we said.
So, I'm gonna copy it and paste it here.
If your target network runs on the five gigahertz frequency,
then you'll have to add, dash capital D,
to the command in here.
But my target, as you can see, it uses 2.4 gigahertz,
therefore, I don't need to do this,
and I'm simply just gonna add my wireless card
in monitor mode, which is mon0.
Now, It's very important to understand that
this command will only disconnect the target client
from the specified network.
So if there are other networks that the target clients can
connect to, it will automatically connect to them.
So in many cases,
it might connect to the five gigahertz version
of the network,
or it might connect to a completely different network
that it already knows the password to.
And if it's a mobile device,
it might even continue to have internet access
through its mobile data plan.
So it might seem like the attack did not work,
but it actually worked,
and the client just disconnected from this network
and is using another network.
To solve this,
all you have to do is simply open up a new terminal window
and run the exact same command,
but this time targets the new network that the client
connected to.
I actually covered that along with more advanced topics
in my advanced network hacking course,
check out the bonus lecture,
the last lecture of this course for more information
about my advanced network hacking course
and all of the other courses
that you can take along with this course.
So a very, very simple command we're typing, aireplay-ng,
this is the name of the program that we're going to use.
We're doing, dash dash deauth,
to tell aireplay-ng
that I want to run a deauthentication attack.
I'm giving it a really large number of packets,
so that it keeps sending the deauthentication packets
to both the router and the client,
and keep the client disconnected.
I'm using, dash a,
to specify the MAC address of the target router
or the target access point.
Then I'm using, dash c,
to specify the MAC address of the client.
Finally, I'm giving it, mon0,
which is the name of my wireless adapter in monitor mode.
Now you can run this command like this
and in most cases it would work, but in very rare cases,
this command will fail unless airodump-ng
is running against the target network.
So, what I'm gonna do now
is I'm gonna go back to my first terminal in here,
and I'm going to run airodump-ng,
using the command that we seen before.
And I don't want to write anything to a file,
so I'm going to remove the write argument.
So, I'm just doing a normal airodump-ng command,
I'm literally just giving it the BSS ID
of my target network and I'm giving it the target channel,
and then I'm just gonna hit Enter.
We seen how to do this, we spent a full lecture on it,
that's why I did it really quick.
And then I'm gonna go back to the command
that we wrote so far and I'm going to hit Enter,
now, as you can see aireplay-ng,
it's telling me that it's sending the
deauthentication packets.
And if we go back here and look up,
you can see that I actually lost my connection
and I'm trying to connect back.
So, obviously if I try to look for anything,
so let's say, test2,
you'll see, I'll get stuck and nothing will load for me.
So the only way for me to connect back
is if I go back here,
if I quit this by doing, Control + C, quit this again.
And now my machine should be able to connect back
and restore its connection.
This is actually very, very handy in so many ways,
it's very useful in social engineering cases,
where you could disconnect clients from the target network
and then call the user and pretend to be a person
from the IT department
and ask them to install a virus or a backdoor
telling them that this would fix their issue.
You could also create another fake access point
and get them to connect to the fake access point
and then start spying on them from that access point,
and we'll see how to do that later on in the course.
And you can also use this to capture the handshake,
which is what happened in here, actually.
And this is vital when it comes to WPA cracking.
And we'll talk about this,
once we get to the WPA cracking section.
So, like I said,
this is a small attack that can be used as a plugin
to other attacks or to make other attacks possible.